Special rules for  papers conducting experiments and collecting primary data
===========================================================================

For experimental papers, additional rules apply. We normally expect
authors of experimental articles to supply the following supplementary
materials (any exceptions to this policy should be requested at the time
of submission):

Original Instructions
---------------------

The original instructions should be summarized as part of the discussion
of experimental design in the submitted manuscript, and also provided in
full as an appendix at the time of submission. The instructions should
be presented in a way that, together with the design summary, conveys
the protocol clearly enough that the design could be replicated by a
reasonably skilled experimentalist. For example, if different
instructions were used for different sessions, the correspondence should
be indicated.

Subject Selection
-----------------

Information about subject eligibility or selection, such as exclusions
based on past participation in experiments, college major, etc. This
should be summarized as part of the discussion of experimental design in
the submitted manuscript.

Software and Scripts
--------------------

Any computer programs, configuration files, or scripts used to run the
experiment shall be provided. These should be summarized as appropriate
in the submitted manuscript and deposited in the AEA Data and Code
Repository. All requirements noted above for programs apply.

Raw Data
--------

The raw data from the experiment should be summarized as appropriate in
the submitted manuscript, and deposited in the AEA Data and Code
Repository.

We strongly encourage authors to deposit raw data and instructions
separately from other replication materials, in order to provide greater
visibility to the author's work.

Analysis Programs
-----------------

All requirements for final and intermediate data files, as well as
cleaning and analysis programs, outlined above, continue to apply. (See
"Data" section above.)