It is the policy of the American Economic Association to publish papers
only if the data and code used in the analysis are clearly and precisely
documented, and access to the data and code is clearly and precisely
documented and is non-exclusive to the authors.

Authors of accepted papers that contain empirical work, simulations, or
experimental work must provide, prior to acceptance, information about
the data, programs, and other details of the computations sufficient to
permit replication, as well as information about access to data and
programs.

Data and programs should be archived in the *AEA Data and Code
Repository*. Authors will provide access to editors and reviewers, if
requested, to both data and programs prior to acceptance. The Editor
should be notified at the time of submission if access to the data used
in a paper is restricted or limited, or if, for some other reason, the
requirements above cannot be met. The AEA Data Editor will assess
compliance with this policy, and will verify the accuracy of the
information prior to acceptance by the Editor.

Instructions
============

When requested by the Editor during the refereeing process, authors are
expected to provide location and access details for their data,
programs, and replication instructions. Final files may be deposited in
the [*AEA Data and Code
Repository*](https://www.openicpsr.org/openicpsr/aea)
(<https://www.openicpsr.org/openicpsr/aea>).[^2]

The AEA Data Editor will verify all information prior to acceptance of
the manuscript by the Editor.

Content and Scope
=================

For econometric, simulation, and experimental papers, the replication
materials shall include (a) the data set(s), (b) the programs used to
create any final and analysis data sets from raw data, (c) programs used
to run the final models, and (d) description sufficient to allow all
programs to be run.

Data
====

For data, enough information should be provided (a) to accurately
describe the data so that somebody who doesn't have knowledge of the
data can understand its principal (and salient) characteristics
(INFORMATION); (b) to be able to acquire the data (whether by download,
by contract, by application process, etc.) (ACCESSIBILITY); and (c) to
assure the reader that the data are available for a sufficiently long
period of time (PERSISTENCE).

The data files can be provided in any format compatible with any
commonly used statistical package or software. Authors are encouraged to
provide data files in open, non-proprietary formats. Programs

Authors should provide clear documentation of all code (within the
code/script files themselves, and through a README). In particular: (a)
it should be clear from the code (and/or the README) where to find the
information contained in each table, figure, and in-text number; (b) all
pre-requisites (data, code, programs, software, possibly operating
system) should be identified (including version numbers); and (c) where
appropriate, random seeds should be fixed.

The programs can be provided in any format compatible with commonly used
statistical package or software. Should unusual or costly software be
required, the Authors are required to notify the AEA Data Editor.

A master script is strongly encouraged.

Metadata
========

As part of the archive, authors must provide a README file listing all
included files and documenting the purpose, format, and provenance of
each file provided, as well as instructing a user on how replication can
be conducted.

Common formats are txt, PDF, and Markdown. The README file should not
require proprietary software to view. It should guide a user on the
types of files and how to use them to do replication.

Authors should ensure that a meaningful name or description (label) is
available for every variable in provided datasets. Codebooks or similar
metadata should describe the allowed values and their meaning for each
variable. It is acceptable to reference publicly available documentation
for these items.

Procedure for restricted-access data
====================================

If data are subject to any access restriction that prevents authors from
depositing the files in an openly accessible data repository, additional
information is required. Authors shall provide detailed information on
how, where, and under what conditions an independent researcher can
access the data. This information shall be provided to the editors upon
submission, and shall be part of the README. All programs, as described
above, shall still be provided.

The AEA Data Editor will verify the information, and may contact the
data providers identified by the authors.

Special rules for experimental papers
=====================================

For experimental papers, additional rules apply. We normally expect
authors of experimental articles to supply the following supplementary
materials (any exceptions to this policy should be requested at the time
of submission):

Original Instructions
---------------------

The original instructions should be summarized as part of the discussion
of experimental design in the submitted manuscript, and also provided in
full as an appendix at the time of submission. The instructions should
be presented in a way that, together with the design summary, conveys
the protocol clearly enough that the design could be replicated by a
reasonably skilled experimentalist. For example, if different
instructions were used for different sessions, the correspondence should
be indicated.

Subject Selection
-----------------

Information about subject eligibility or selection, such as exclusions
based on past participation in experiments, college major, etc. This
should be summarized as part of the discussion of experimental design in
the submitted manuscript.

Software and Scripts
--------------------

Any computer programs, configuration files, or scripts used to run the
experiment shall be provided. These should be summarized as appropriate
in the submitted manuscript and deposited in the AEA Data and Code
Repository. All requirements noted above for programs apply.

Raw Data
--------

The raw data from the experiment should be summarized as appropriate in
the submitted manuscript, and deposited in the AEA Data and Code
Repository.

We strongly encourage authors to deposit raw data and instructions
separately from other replication materials, in order to provide greater
visibility to the author's work.

Analysis Programs
-----------------

All requirements for final and intermediate data files, as well as
cleaning and analysis programs, outlined above, continue to apply. (See
\"Data\" section above.)

Registration
============

The AEA has a policy on the registration of randomized control trials.
Please see the policy at
<https://www.aeaweb.org/journals/policies/rct-registry>.

Transmission of Data and Code Materials
=======================================

Instructions on how to deposit materials at the *AEA Data and Code
Repository* are provided at
[openICPSR](https://www.openicpsr.org/openicpsr/aea/deposit-instructions)
(<[https://www.openicpsr.org/openicpsr/aea/deposit-instructions](https://www.openicpsr.org/openicpsr/aea/deposit-instructions)>), with
additional instructions available at
<[https://aeadataeditor.github.io/aea-de-guidance/data-deposit-aea-guidance.html](https://aeadataeditor.github.io/aea-de-guidance/data-deposit-aea-guidance.html)>.

Files uploaded to the *AEA Data and Code Repository* should retain the
file names as originally executed or used, their original file format,
and their original \"grouping\" in terms of directories.

The *AEA Data and Code Repository* can handle files up to 2GB. Please
[contact the repository
staff](https://www.openicpsr.org/openicpsr/contactUs)
(<[https://www.openicpsr.org/openicpsr/contactUs](https://www.openicpsr.org/openicpsr/contactUs)>) should you need to
upload larger files, or encounter any problems.

For more information, see the [Frequently Asked
Questions](https://www.aeaweb.org/journals/policies/data-code/faq)
(<[https://www.aeaweb.org/journals/policies/data-code/faq](https://www.aeaweb.org/journals/policies/data-code/faq)>).

Note
====

This *AEA Data and Code Availability Policy* was published online at
<[https://www.aeaweb.org/journals/policies/data-code]https://www.aeaweb.org/journals/policies/data-code> on July 16,
2019,[^3] replacing previous policies. The policy is reprinted here as
the version of record. Guidance to authors on how to comply with the
policy can be found at the web address above, and at
<[https://aeadataeditor.github.io/aea-de-guidance/data-deposit-aea-guidance.html](https://aeadataeditor.github.io/aea-de-guidance/data-deposit-aea-guidance.html)>.

[^1]: For questions, contact the AEA Data Editor at
    dataeditor\@aeapubs.org

[^2]: Other repositories and archives may be acceptable, as long as
    these are considered to be \"trusted\" archives or repositories, see
    [guidance](https://social-science-data-editors.github.io/guidance/Requested_information_hosting.html)
    (<https://social-science-data-editors.github.io/guidance/Requested_information_hosting.html>).
    The AEA Data Editor will assess suitability of any such repositories
    and archives.

[^3]: See
    <https://www.aeaweb.org/news/member-announcements-july-16-2019>.
