Data and Code Availability Policy: Frequently Asked Questions
=============================================================

 {#section .subtitle}

***\
Is there a cost to using the AEA Data and Code Repository?***

No.

***Should I upload the manuscript, or the online appendix?***

No, you should only upload code and data. Draft or final manuscript or
appendix files should be sent to the editorial office. Instructions were
provided to you in email correspondence.

***Do I keep the copyright on materials I upload to the AEA Data and
Code Repository?***

Yes.

***What license applies to files made available through the AEA Data and
Code Repository?***

You as a depositor choose a license. The AEA
[suggests](https://social-science-data-editors.github.io/guidance/Licensing_guidance.html)
[Creative Commons Attribution International
4.0](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) (CC-BY) for data and
any documents, and the [modified BSD
license](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause) for software and
code. However, authors are free to choose other licenses, as long as
these allow for others to use the data and code for replication
purposes. If in doubt, contact the AEA Data Editor.

***My data is made available on Dropbox/ OneDrive/ Sugarsync/ personal
website etc. Do I need to do anything else?***

Cloud storage providers, commercial or otherwise, are not \"trusted\"
archives or repositories. You will need to upload your data to the [AEA
Data and Code Repository](https://www.openicpsr.org/openicpsr/aea).

***Can I use other archives or data repositories?***

Yes, as long as these are considered \"trusted\" archives or
repositories, see
[guidance](https://social-science-data-editors.github.io/guidance/Requested_information_hosting.html).
The AEA Data Editor will assess suitability of any such repositories and
archives.

***My data has identifiable person or firm/establishment information,
and I want to control who has access. Can I use the AEA Data and Code
Repository?***

No. You will need to either remove the identifiable information, or make
the data available at archives that support the relevant access
controls. You can find additional guidance
[here](https://social-science-data-editors.github.io/guidance/Requested_information_hosting.html).

***Will my code be run by the AEA?***

Yes, within reasonable limits of time and computing resources, we will
run your code, and verify that the results produced by your code and
data correspond with the publishable results in your article, prior to
acceptance. Guidance on what we check can be found
[here](https://social-science-data-editors.github.io/guidance/Verification_guidance.html).

***Access to the data I used is restricted. Surely you won\'t be able to
run the code. Is that a problem?***

The Editor needs to be alerted to such situations at the time of
submission. In all such cases, we still ask you to provide the code, and
a description of how the data can be accessed. We may test the access
protocol prior to acceptance, and we may ask for support by third
parties in running the code you provide. It is likely that this will not
always be possible. The ultimate decision about whether to go forward
with the submission, and whether to accept an article rests with the
journal\'s Editor or Co-Editor.

Â 
