
Data
====

enough information should be provided (a) to accurately
describe the data so that somebody who doesn't have knowledge of the
data can understand its principal (and salient) characteristics
(INFORMATION); (b) to be able to acquire the data (whether by download,
by contract, by application process, etc.) (ACCESSIBILITY); and (c) to
assure the reader that the data are available for a sufficiently long
period of time (PERSISTENCE).

The data files can be provided in any format compatible with any
commonly used statistical package or software. Authors are encouraged to
provide data files in open, non-proprietary formats. 

Programs
========

Authors should provide clear documentation of all code (within the
code/script files themselves, and through a README). In particular: (a)
it should be clear from the code (and/or the README) where to find the
information contained in each table, figure, and in-text number; (b) all
pre-requisites (data, code, programs, software, possibly operating
system) should be identified (including version numbers); and (c) where
appropriate, random seeds should be fixed.

The programs can be provided in any format compatible with commonly used
statistical package or software. Should unusual or costly software be
required, the Authors are required to notify the AEA Data Editor.

A master script is strongly encouraged.

Metadata
========

As part of the archive, authors must provide a README file listing all
included files and documenting the purpose, format, and provenance of
each file provided, as well as instructing a user on how replication can
be conducted.

Common formats are txt, PDF, and Markdown. The README file should not
require proprietary software to view. It should guide a user on the
types of files and how to use them to do replication.

Authors should ensure that a meaningful name or description (label) is
available for every variable in provided datasets. Codebooks or similar
metadata should describe the allowed values and their meaning for each
variable. It is acceptable to reference publicly available documentation
for these items.

Procedure for restricted-access data
====================================

If data are subject to any access restriction that prevents authors from
depositing the files in an openly accessible data repository, additional
information is required. Authors shall provide detailed information on
how, where, and under what conditions an independent researcher can
access the data. This information shall be provided to the editors upon
submission, and shall be part of the README. All programs, as described
above, shall still be provided.

The AEA Data Editor will verify the information, and may contact the
data providers identified by the authors.

Transmission of Data and Code Materials
=======================================

Instructions on how to deposit materials at the *AEA Data and Code
Repository* are provided at
[openICPSR](https://www.openicpsr.org/openicpsr/aea/deposit-instructions)
(<[https://www.openicpsr.org/openicpsr/aea/deposit-instructions](https://www.openicpsr.org/openicpsr/aea/deposit-instructions)>), with
additional instructions available at
<[https://aeadataeditor.github.io/aea-de-guidance/data-deposit-aea-guidance.html](https://aeadataeditor.github.io/aea-de-guidance/data-deposit-aea-guidance.html)>.

Files uploaded to the *AEA Data and Code Repository* should retain the
file names as originally executed or used, their original file format,
and their original \"grouping\" in terms of directories.

The *AEA Data and Code Repository* can handle files up to 2GB. Please
[contact the repository
staff](https://www.openicpsr.org/openicpsr/contactUs)
(<[https://www.openicpsr.org/openicpsr/contactUs](https://www.openicpsr.org/openicpsr/contactUs)>) should you need to
upload larger files, or encounter any problems.

For more information, see the [Frequently Asked
Questions](https://www.aeaweb.org/journals/policies/data-code/faq)
(<[https://www.aeaweb.org/journals/policies/data-code/faq](https://www.aeaweb.org/journals/policies/data-code/faq)>).