---
title: "Training on reproducible methods in empirical economics" 
collection: talks
type: "Presentation"
date: 2024-05-31
location: "Toronto, Canada"
mode: "In-Person"
joint: 
  - Marie Connolly
venue: "58th Annual Meetings of the Canadian Economics Association"
mainurl: https://www.economics.ca/cpages/cea2024
doi: 
maindoi:
participants: 15
---

## Preliminary! 

The session still needs to be confirmed. Details to follow.

## Abstract

**Session 1: "Reproducibility from Day 1"** [May 31]

[Link to session](https://ceaconference.secure-platform.com/site/solicitations/102001/sessiongallery/94372)

Journals require that you share your code and data in a replication package upon acceptance. However, efficient reproducibility starts at the beginning of the research project. Following some best practices from day 1 can not only help you prepare a replication package later, but also make you a more productive researcher. In this workshop, we start with an empty folder and finish with a mini-project about public procurement across various European countries, ready for submission to a journal. Together we discuss and document all the choices we make about data collection and analysis, in a way that can help future readers of our research. For advanced topics, see

**Session 2: "Advanced methods for self-verification of reproducibility"** [June 1]

[Link to session](https://ceaconference.secure-platform.com/site/solicitations/102001/sessiongallery/94373)

In this second session, data editors describe a few possible steps to self-check replication packages before submitting them to a journal. It is not meant to be exhaustive, and it is not meant to be prescriptive. There are many ways to construct a replication package, and many more to check that it works. Questions from the audience are encouraged. Participants are encouraged to also attend. 

*Marie Connolly is Data Editor for the Canadian Journal of Economics.*
