---
title: "Enhancing Scientific Integrity: Progress and Opportunities in the Social and Behavioral Sciences - A Workshop "
categories: dataeditor, open-science
collection: talks
type: "Workshop"
tags: workshop
date: 2026-04-23
mode: "Online"
location: "Washington, DC"
venue: "Board on Behavioral, Cognitive, and Sensory Sciences at the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine"
participants: 
mainurl: https://www.nationalacademies.org/projects/DBASSE-BBCSS-25-02
doi:
maindoi:
---

This workshop will bring together researchers, journal editors, publishers, funders, and scientific association leaders to identify practical, forward-looking strategies for strengthening data integrity and transparency in the social and behavioral sciences. Participants will explore innovative tools and frameworks to detect and prevent errors, promote accountability, and reinforce public trust in research. Discussions will also consider how journals, institutions, and professional societies can adopt fair, sustainable practices that support scientific rigor while ensuring accessibility for researchers across many contexts and settings.

Key questions to be addressed include:

- How can the social and behavioral sciences continue to lead the way in advancing data integrity? What successful methods or frameworks from other disciplines might be adapted to strengthen these efforts?
- Could systematic, random audits of published data help detect and correct honest mistakes while discouraging malfeasance? What governance structures would ensure such efforts are fair, sustainable, and constructive? What new tools might facilitate this process?
- How can scientific journals refine their policies (e.g., review processes, data validation) to support transparency and integrity while maintaining accessibility for researchers across diverse contexts?
- What strategies can be employed to ensure potential solutions avoid placing undue burdens on researchers, especially those at institutions with limited resources?